---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Meteor Gotches 
date: 2017-03-09
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Meteor
---
As a new web app developer, Meteor is my first development tool, I used to do the back-end development. Before started Meteor I learned how to do UI development with languages such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. And I’ve learnt how to use Semantic UI to make better UI frameworks. So far, it’s my second week in Meteor, and I felt like it is still so hard and confusing , but with more time spending experiencing and understanding it, I’ve definitely felt more comfortable with it. And here, I would like to introduce you with two main problem I have with Meteor.

The first problem when I’ve just started learning Meteor is the logic of the template. After following the 50 minutes Complete Meteor Tutorial, which I simply following the tutorial to do make a small todo list. I did everything they asked me to do and it runs properly, but that doesn’t means that I already know how to use Meteor. I felt like I had no idea about the logics of the template. When we create a variable, I didn’t know that is that variable for, and why I create this type of variable. I also feel like I’ve using different syntaxes, sometimes I’m using “({…})” to include something, and sometimes I’m only using “{…}” or “[…]”. Anyways, I didn’t have an idea about what to use at specific situation. Furthermore, I also problem with the logic behind blaze templates. When I was writing .js file, the variable we call sometimes is from the one created in HTML file, sometimes it’s local, and sometimes it’s global. And I had no sense what is making the difference. To understand Meteor better, I searched up more tutorials, and there was one that has helped me a lot. And this is the link https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Pa5D1XKXQuo. When watching the video I tried to spend more time to understand what variable refers to what and it has helped a lot.

The second problem I had with Meteor is that I'm still confused about the proper way to organize and import file. When I was lookign at the digit wod part one, I didn't know how the professor decided which file we should use to edit specific things. Hope I can learn more about this in the future.

Those are the two problems I had with my meteor studying. Let me know that is yours 