---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Why Semantic UI is Better than Bootstrap
date: 2017-02-23
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
UI frameworks is tools or libraries that take care of the web layout. With UI framework, app developers can focus on the logic of an web app, rather than spending tons of hours editing to get the webpages look right. I’ve tried two UI frameworks so far, Semantic UI and Twitter Bootstrap. And as a newbie in UI frameworks, I prefer Semantic UI over Bootstrap.

The main reason I love Semantic UI is that It’s well documented.  The main Semantic UI website (http://semantic-ui.com ) is a lot well organized. It has the main content (elements, models, collections, etc.) of this library listed on the left column of the website, and the details of each content are listed on the right column when we click on a specific content. It’s a lot easier to go through and choose the right piece of code we need to achieve what we want. Furthermore, if you love examples, you will love it. Semantic UI website are filled with examples. There are examples with specific look you want to achieve. When I was using bootstrap, I would search for how-tos in Google, Youtube, or Stack Overflow. I barely used Bootstrap’s website(http://getbootstrap.com), because it’s not that easy to find the specific example I want. But when I was using Semantic UI. I would use Semantic UI’s main website for most of the time. I only search elsewhere when I need to modify the CSS part. This has save me a lot of time and energy. 

Another reason I like Sematic UI over Bootstrap is that the language is a lot more natural. It doesn’t have abbreviation. And the syntax is just like regular English, which we have adjectives before object, so it’s a lot easier to remember. For example, if we want to create a primary button, we would do <button type= “button” class= “btn btn-primary”></button>. In Semantic UI, we can simply type <button class= “ui primary button”></button>. Also in most case, when I want to change something of an element in Semantic UI, I can simply just add an adjective inside the class of the element. For Bootstrap, I would go to edit the stylesheet more often to change a specific feature. Furthermore, Semantic UI elements are a lot easier to be recognized since it always has “ui” in the class. This makes editing a lot easier. 
It’s important to note that those are just my personal experience with Semantic UI and Bootstrap. It’s just the opinions of a newbie in UI framework. I had never dig deep into either framework yet. I also heard someone said that bootstrap is more customizable. Since I’m not a designer, I feel Semantic UI is enough for me at the moment, but I’m not sure if I would prefer bootstrap, when I need a more complex design in the future. It’s also worth to mention that even we have great UI frameworks, it’s still very important to know CSS and JavaScript. They deal with those very specific details, and they adds the flexibility on the look of your website. 
