---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Configuration Management Reflection
date: 2017-02-02
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---
    
Configuration management(CM) is a system that deal with different version or 
updates of software's.   Configuration management skill is very important 
skill for software engineers. Nowadays, most software are built by teammates 
or teams collaborating with each other to finish different part of a project.
Without knowing Configuration management, it would be almost impossible to do
software development, since it would be impossible to work in a team. When I
was taking ICS 111, I was in a group of 4 people, we were asked to make a
small project for final. At that time, I knew nothing about configuration
management or version control system, so what we decided to do was that two 
of just work on parts that require no codes at all, and the other two would 
be working on the coding part. And even though only two people was working 
on the coding part, it’s still really hard, since they would always have to 
meet together to write the code. If I know configuration management, I 
believe doing collaborative projects would be a lot easier for us. 

Now, I want to talk about my opinions on Git and GitHut. I think that for 
sure both Git and GitHub are making each other more and more popular, but in 
the very beginning of their relationship, I will say that GitHub is popular 
because of Git. Git have an older history than Github. Git was created in
2005 for the development of Linux Kernel. In 2005, storing data online wasn't
very popular. Even though, Git itself doesn't allow developers to store data 
in the cloud, the development of Git still made great contribute in improving
the version control system. Git is a lot better than earlier version control 
systems for several reasons. First of all, it modify and store data locally,
which make it easier to access without worrying about internet stability 
(Loss of internet connect mess up the file). Secondly, it detects the change
before storing the data, so that it's impossible for the change not to be 
recorded. Furthermore, in Git, we can only add to the database, it's 
impossible to  delete item from database, so that we don’t need to worry
about accidently losing certain version of the file. All of those has 
showed that  the creation of Git has greatly improved the configuration 
management. And it was well adopted by the public. Later, with the 
development of cloud computing technology, GitHub was created. GitHub is not
the same as Git, since Git is a type of Version Control System( VCM), but 
GitHub is the cloud based service that allow people to upload Git 
repositories online. Storing repositories online creates a copy of the 
repository, allow them to be more efficiently accessed by a wider range 
of people, and also allow us to access it anywhere as well as we have 
internet. GitHub would exist without Git. But at the same time, this cloud 
service (GitHub) also made Git more well-known by providing convenience for
accessing Git repositories.